---
layout: post
title: Quit
permalink: /quit/
read: 2
---

{{ page.title }}
================
<p class="meta">06 March 2024 &bull; {{ page.read }} minute read</p>

I've been employing a controversial strategy to strengthen my deep work sessions. When I notice my flow state has gone on "too long", I quit while I'm on top of things. I shut my laptop down for the night and switch over to analog activities. There's a few reasons for this:

1. It mitigates risk of burnout since I'm no longer overworking myself.
2. I'm excited for my next work session.
3. My subconscious is able to ruminate on unsolved problems.

I use a simple framework to easily go from deep work to rest, and back to deep work: Hemingway Bridges.

I start each bridge entry with the date and a simple reflection: "Today, I..." I often add a quick note about what I was proud of during my work session, then dive deeper into what I worked on. Next, I set up what my next work session will look like. I store all my analog notes and journal entries in my Bullet Journal. To maintain consistency, I outline my next session using the Bullet Journal indicators. When I'm satisfied with my tasks, I immediately put them in that day's entry.

A recent Friday bridge entry looked like this (information redacted for privacy):

> HEMINGWAY BRIDGE - (DATE)
> 
> Today I made a lot of progress on (PROJECT). I'm really proud of where I got to, and I'm excited to keep working on it on Monday. I got the (TASK) completed, although I do want to make some adjustments to the structure. Today was mostly about getting functionality going, which I did! I'm so proud of myself for figuring out (MASSIVE, ANNOYING PROBLEM).
> 
> I'll be continuing to reference (RESOURCE) next week, and pulling from (DETAIL) to make the changes that I want to see. This way, (PROJECT) should (FUNCTION) better since I'll be using primarily (TOOL) to build the (PROJECT).
> 
> I will continue working through (PROJECT BACKLOG) on Monday, starting with the tweaks to (TASK). By refactoring the (TASK) code to the new structure, I anticipate it becoming easier and faster to complete (REMAINING TASKS) within a week or two.
> 
> On Monday, I will:
> - Use (RESOURCE) to refactor (TASK) code
> - Tweak (TASK) as described in (PROJECT BACKLOG)
> - Use (RESOURCE) to begin developing (NEXT TASK)

Using Hemingway Bridges has allowed me to cut down on the time needed to complete certain types of tasks. Where I used to run myself in circles to solve problems, I now find it much easier to come back with fresh eyes.

If you've never tried this method for yourself, I encourage you to try it for yourself this week.

## Recommended reading:
- [Cal Newport, Deep Work](https://a.co/d/8T8nyEp)
- [Tom Bills, The Hemingway Bridge Method and How to Use It](https://theartoflutherie.com/hemingway-bridge-method/)
- [Michael Barlow, The Hemingway Bridge as an End of Week Unplug Process](https://www.barlows.blog/my-end-of-week-review-process/)