---
layout: post
title: Overhaul
author: Caleb Jolliffe
date: 2024-03-14 13:00:00
permalink: /:slug
read: 3
---

Every so often, I get that insatiable itch to fix my productivity system. For the longest time, I figured Shiny Object Syndrome/boredom was the culprit, or as several productivity gurus mention now, I was addicted to *building and optimizing systems*, not *actually using the system*. Turns out, the itch stems from something not working. Either something in my system is now broken or redundant, or it never worked to begin with.

I recently found a video by [Rachelle in Theory](https://youtu.be/h1mbLqAsCJo?si=YPU3z4TAYdw8diWl) that's helped me solve my system issues. Rachelle splits her system into four categories, which I'll explore in more depth: Capture, Task Manager, Calendar, and Note-Taking System.

## Capture
Despite being a digital minimalist for years and not using many tools in my daily work, I'm a sucker for testing out new tools—especially if it helps out a friend. The number of capture sources and lingering files I have kicking around is appalling, and I'm embarrassed to say I came up with *twenty-seven capture sources* on my list. What's worse, those are just the tools I remembered, and I genuinely only use *two* in all my workflows. The two that made the cut are:

1. Bullet Journal
2. Obsidian

My primary method of capturing information is in my Bullet Journal. Rough thoughts, ideas, tasks and the like all get captured in my Bullet Journal. I've gone back and forth between analog and digital over the years and have finally reached the conclusion that analog capturing works better for my brain. It's perfect for the short term, and if I capture something I know will be used longterm, it gets a more permanent home in my Obsidian vault.

## Task Manager
Another appalling find. Several of my capture methods doubled as a task manager, or even *tripled* as a note-taking system. This time, only one thing made the cut:

1. Bullet Journal

Since my Bullet Journal's intended use case is my daily log/planner, it makes sense that it serves as my task manager. The only other "task manager" I use is sharing my daily tasks (recorded in my BuJo) in a friend's Discord server. Sharing my "quests" in the `quest log` is a fun way to share encouragement with my friends and also see what they're up to.

## Calendar
I've used several calendars over the years and have yet to find something I truly enjoy. That said, it's a calendar app, so maybe I'll never truly find something I "enjoy". I've opted for convenience:

1. Apple Calendar
2. Cal.com for client bookings (syncs to my Apple Calendar)

I do also log calendar events in my Bullet Journal's daily entries, but I would consider those closer to a day's tasks rather than a dedicated calendar.

## Note-Taking System
Controversial opinion: I don't have one, and I like it that way.

I recently graduated college, where I gravitated towards the Cornell Notes System for theory-heavy classes. Typically, I take unstructured notes in my Bullet Journal with the date and occasionally the theme/topic as the heading. This particular blog post started as "2024-03-02 - PRODUCTIVITY SYSTEM". If and when the note is important enough to be digitized and saved for the longterm, it gets added to my Obsidian vault. These days, I'm mostly digitizing blog posts to publish.

I don't personally consider this a full "system", but folks might think otherwise. [Let me know](mailto:calebjolliffe@proton.me) if you think this deserves to be recognized as a system or expanded into one—and let me know why!

## The System
I didn't do a full count on all the tools I have, but it's a long list that goes largely unused to say the least. Obviously some tools have very specific use cases that have their place in my workflow, but I only have a few daily drivers. My barebones productivity system is simply:

1. Bullet Journal
2. Obsidian
3. Apple Calendar
4. Cal.com

It's working to cover all my bases, and I haven't run into any issues of needing more for my daily needs. This doesn't include the tools involved in managing my business, but I can cover that in a separate post if there's interest.

I'm now almost three months into using this barebones system and the difference it's made in my time management and the quality of my work is mindblowing. I've admittedly never made it this far into a project without feeling burnout to some degree, and I'm shocked that I'm feeling myself *healing* from burnout.

Rachelle's video is well worth your time, and I hope it inspires you to consider your systems the way it did for me.

## Further exploration:
- [Rachelle in Theory, Deep Clean Your Productivity System for 2024](https://youtu.be/h1mbLqAsCJo?si=YPU3z4TAYdw8diWl)