---
layout: post
title: Update
author: Caleb Jolliffe
date: 2024-03-08 13:00:00
permalink: /:slug
read: 1
---

After two months of trial and error, my writing officially has its new, permanent home on my site. With this update comes a few new ways to read my work:

1. [By RSS](https://calebjolliffe.co/rss)
2. [By email](https://buttondown.email/calebjolliffe)

Along with these new ways to read my work comes a few things worth noting:

1. I now have a [Ko-Fi page](https://ko-fi.com/calebjolliffe). I have no intention of paywalling my writing or thoughts, so sending me a dollar is a nice way to show your support. It helps keep the lights on over here, and doesn't go unnoticed <3
2. New pages and features are still rolling out. Projects will be added over the coming weeks, as will links to my shop as they get updated. I also have a guestbook in the works.
3. The site's carbon footprint will be reduced further. It's already very low, and receives an A+ rating from [Digital Beacon](https://digitalbeacon.co/report/calebjolliffe-co), but I'm not happy with it yet. As you can see in the report, the previous iteration of my site had a lower footprint. Since I'm still building, I haven't optimized this site iteration's code or images yet. I anticipate the "finished" footprint will be much closer to the previous iteration's.

With this update, I have a simple request from you: if you come across any bugs or fixes, please [let me know](mailto:calebjolliffe@proton.me). 

*I'm currently working to fix an issue with the layout on mobile.*

Thank you for all your support so far, it's been greatly appreciated.

Much love,

Caleb